Imagine you're snapping a picture of
your dog. You can stretch it wide, flip
it sideways, even slide it over. And
those are all graph transformations. But
the one thing no one explains, the
mindset shift that makes all those moves
crystal clear.
So, let's start by calling out what
makes this hard. Transformations are so
confusing because there's so many
disconnected rules. We talk about
shifting up, shifting down, shifting
left and right, stretching, reflecting,
and there's so many things to keep in
your head all at once. One of the other
big problems is that horizontal shifts
always feel like they're backwards. A
shift of xus 3 feels like it should move
the graph to the left because we're
subtracting from the x value when in
fact it shifts the graph to the right.
And then on top of that, things get
blurry when we try to make multiple
changes at once. And vertical and
horizontal transformations can get
meshed together. So the result is that
this all feels kind of like a
memorization nightmare. But here's the
key. You actually don't need to memorize
everything. You just need to understand
what each transformation does to the
graph individually. So here's the core
idea and the key mindset shift. We just
have to remember that every point moves.
At its core, a transformation just means
that every point on the graph migrates
to a new location. That's it. We don't
need to think about the function as a
whole. We just need to pick a few anchor
points like maybe the vertex of a
parabola or the intercepts of a line and
track what happens to those specific
points. Which means we can always start
by asking ourselves what is this
transformation doing to a single point.
For instance, let's say we have this
parabola in red here with its vertex at
the origin. We can see that if we
transform this parabola by shifting it
three units to the right that we can do
that one point at a time. We can start
with the most obvious point which is the
vertex itself. And we see that the
vertex moves three units to the right.
But that means that every other point
along the original parabola should also
move three units to the right. And we
see that that is in fact the case. We
can match up different sets of points.
And as we trace up the parabola, we can
see that each set is getting shifted
exactly three units to the right, which
is why this distance is always the same
between corresponding points. In other
words, instead of thinking about the
entire parabola in general when we're
trying to transform it by moving it
three units to the right, pick
particular points like the vertex at 0 0
or like the point 1 or 24. Transform
those individual points and then connect
that new set of points to form the new
transformed parabola. So with that key
idea in mind, let's talk about the four
main types of transformations. The first
one is this idea of a vertical shift
where adding some constant to the
function moves the graph up and
subtracting some constant from the
function moves the graph down. Notice
how the addition of these constants is
outside the function f ofx. Whereas in
horizontal transformations the addition
of constants happens inside the function
where we replace x with x - 4 or we
replace x with x+1. This horizontal
shift where we change x to x - 4. And
again, remember that this feels
backwards moves the graph four units to
the right. Even though we have
subtraction, when we have addition and
we add one here, replacing x with x+1,
that means the graph is going to shift
one unit to the left. So, we have to
remember horizontal shifts always feel
backwards. We also need to know about
reflections where multiplying the
function by -1 reflects the graph or
creates a mirror image of it over the
x-axis. Whereas replacing x with
negativex is going to reflect the graph
over the y-axis. It's going to create a
mirror image of the curve across the
y-axis. And then finally stretches and
compressions where multiplying the
function by a value greater than one is
going to make it taller. It's going to
stretch it out vertically. Whereas
multiplying the function by some value
between 0 and 1, so a positive fraction
here is going to make the graph shorter.
It's going to compress it or squish it
down vertically. So these two here are
vertical. These two are horizontal. If
we multiply inside the function by a
value greater than one, it's going to
compress or squish the graph so that it
becomes narrower. Whereas multiplying by
a positive constant between 0 and one,
so a positive fraction like this is
going to pull or stretch the graph
wider. So just remember inside the
function is always a horizontal
transformation. Outside the function is
always a vertical transformation. And
those inside changes always feel
reversed. So the horizontal shift feels
reversed. It feels backwards. The same
is also true for these horizontal
shifts. Multiplying by two feels like it
should double the width of the function.
It actually makes it narrower.
Multiplying by 1/2 feels like it should
squish the function so that it's only
half as wide when in fact it makes it
wider. So those horizontal
transformations, those transformations
that are inside the function feel
backwards. The vertical transformations
like the vertical shift or the vertical
stretch and compression, those usually
feel more natural to us when we think
about them. With this in mind, let's try
to walk through a full example so that
we can see these transformations in
action. Let's say that we're starting
with the function f ofx= x^2. That's the
parabola with its vertex at the origin
that opens up. It's this graph here. And
what we've been asked to do is sketch
the graph of this function g ofx, which
is -2 * x - 3^ 2 + 5. We may not know
exactly what this graph looks like, but
we can start with x², which we're very
familiar with, and take it one
transformation at a time. Now, and this
is key, as we're applying these
transformations, we always want to work
our way from the inside out, starting
with whichever transformation is closest
to x. So if we're trying to go from x^2
to this function g ofx, we would not
start by applying the + 5 vertical
shift. Instead, we would start here
right in the interior of the function at
the x - 3 and we would replace x in f
ofx with x - 3. Remember though that
this is a horizontal shift, which means
it's going to feel backwards. So instead
of the minus3 shifting the graph to the
left, it's actually going to shift it to
the right. So we can sketch in a new
function which we call just x - 3^ 2. So
in f ofx here we've just replaced x with
x - 3. We haven't changed anything else.
All that does is shift this parabola 3
units to the right. So we've now
accomplished this portion of the
function. Our next step is to continue
working from the inside toward the
outside. Which means that next we have
to multiply by two. When we multiply
what we have here by two, because we're
multiplying our entire existing
function, the x - 3^ 2 by 2. We're not
just multiplying the x by 2, but the
whole function. That means that our
parabola is going to get taller. If we
sketch that, we see that we have 2 * x -
3^ 2 and that parabola gets taller. That
of course gets us to this point. Our
next step is to multiply the entire
function by -1. Well, that's this
transformation here. multiplying the
entire function by -1, which means we're
going to be reflecting over the x-axis
or creating a mirror image of this
yellow curve across the x-axis. So that
new transformed parabola is this
function -2 * x - 3^ 2. And now we've
tackled this entire part of g ofx. All
that's left to do is add 5 to the
function, which is going to be a
vertical shift up of five units. So our
purple parabola here will shift up five.
And now we've tackled this entire
function. We've arrived at g ofx. And we
can say that this green parabola here is
the graph of -2 * x - 3^2 + 5, which we
got to in four steps by starting with
the function x^2. If we bring back the
original function, we see what we
started with and where we got to by
applying four steps of transformations.
And going back to this core idea, let's
recap what happened to a particular
point on the graph. Let's say that we
started with this point here which is
the point 24 on the original function f
ofx. So we start with the point 24. Well
when we then shift the graph 3 units to
the right it means this point here in
particular is going to shift to the
point 54. And we see that by adding the
point in here. When we then multiply by
2, we have a vertical stretch which is
going to pull the y-coordinate 4 up to 8
and the coordinate here becomes 58 which
means we can plot in our new point. Then
reflecting the graph over the x-axis by
multiplying by -1 means that the y value
gets multiplied by -1. So our new point
becomes 58
and we can plot that in. And then
finally, when we add in a vertical shift
of five units up, that means this
y-value of8 is going to go to -3. And
our final point should sit at 5, -3. And
if we sketch that in, we see that that
in fact does intersect this parabola,
this sketch of g of x. And obviously we
could do that for every point. We know
easily that the original vertex at 0 0
moved here to 35. and every individual
point on x^2 would transform into
another point on -2 * x - 3 ^2 + 5. The
key here is that we always want to go
step by step, one step at a time, one
transformation at a time. Here it took
us four steps and we can track points
along the way as we apply one
transformation at a time. We never want
to try to jump from the original graph
to the final graph in one step. Instead,
we want to build this piece by piece and
track it like it's a journey. Once we
stop memorizing rules and start tracking
points, then transformations turn into a
puzzle instead of a pain. We just need
to remember this one key idea that
transformations just move the graph.
They move every point on the original
graph to new points on the transformed
graph. We always want to start simple
and practice one transformation at a
time and then try layering them
together. Always remembering to start on
the inside and work our way toward the
outside. Once transformations click, so
much of graphing gets easier. If you're
ready to keep going or want to explore
more, the link in the description takes
you right to my courses.
[Music]